Testing : Manual testing is a test method in which a QA manually evaluates a software programme to find defects. The goal is to find bugs or defects, ensuring the product is error-free, and guarantee it meets the functional requirements.
Types of Testing : Manual & Automation 
Manual : White Box , Black Box , Grey Box 
Types of Black Box Testing : Functional & Non Functional 

Functional Testing : Functional testing ensures that the requirements or specifications are properly satisfied by the application. This type of testing is particularly concerned with the result of processing. 
Different Levels of Testing:------
ex: Unit Testing : Unit Testing basically Included in both White Box Testing and Black Box Testing. 
Integration Testing : It is used to identify and resolve any issues that may arise when different units of the software are combined.
System Testing :  System Testing is a level of testing that validates the complete and fully integrated software product.
End-to-end Testing :  End-to-end (E2E) testing is a software testing method that validates an application's functionality and performance from start to finish.
Acceptance testing : sometimes called beta testing or end-user testing.

Non-Functional Testing : Non-functional Testing is a type of Software Testing that is performed to verify the non-functional requirements of the application. 
It verifies whether the behavior of the system is as per the requirement or not.
ex: Performance,Security Testing.

What exactly is the distinction between verification and validation?
White box testing:  It is used for verification. In this, we focus on internal mechanisms i.e. how the output is achieved. 
Black Box testing:  It is used for validation. In this, we ignore internal working mechanisms and focus on “what is the output?” 

Software Testing Principles
seven different testing principles:-
Testing shows the presence of defects
Exhaustive Testing is not possible
Early Testing
Defect Clustering
Pesticide Paradox
Testing is context-dependent
Absence of errors fallacy

Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC)
Requirement Phase
Design Phase
Build /Development Phase
Testing Phase
Deployment/ Deliver Phase
Maintenance

Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC)
Requirement Analysis
Test Plan Creation
Environment setup
Test case Execution
Defect Logging
Test Cycle Closure

whiteBox Testing Techniques: 
statement coverage, branch coverage, and path coverage
BlackBox Testing Techniques:
equivalence partitioning, boundary value analysis, decision table testing, and state transition testing.

Drawbacks of Manual Testing?
Time-consuming,Difficult to measure,Costly
Agile Methelogies:
The Agile methodology is a project management approach that involves breaking the project into phases and emphasizes continuous collaboration and improvement.
Testcase : A test case is a document that contains a set of conditions or actions that are executed on the software application to verify the feature's expected functionality.
Test scenerio : The test scenario is a detailed document of test cases that cover end to end functionality of a software application in liner statements./The test scenarios can never be used for the text execution process because it does not consist of navigation steps and input.
Test Plan : Includes test scope, objectives, resources, schedule, test environment, test cases, entry/exit criteria, risks, and deliverables.
RTM:A requirements traceability matrix (RTM) is a document that describes the relationship between customer requirements and test artifacts, especially test cases.
Regression Testing : We do regression testing whenever the production/server code is modified.
Entry Criteria For Testing : Entry criteria, also known as prerequisites or preconditions, are the conditions that must be met before testing can begin.(Requiements Document Approved, Test Plan Approved, Test Data Availability, Test Resources Approved)
Exit Criteria For Testing : conditions that signify the completion of the testing phase. (TestCase Executed,Defects Closure,Test Coverage Achieved)
Smoke Testing : Whenever a new build is installed, we make sure that build is testable or not, and if it is testable, then we perform smoke testing (with positive testcases only)
Sanity Testing : Subset of Regression,Whenever the bugs have been fixed, or a new feature added, we need to perform sanity testing in order to check whether the application is still working fine or not.
Static Testing : Static testing is performed in the white box testing phase, Test Data,BRD,Line Of Code [Static testing is a verification process,]
Dynamic Testing : 
