Interview Basic 1 you will find in Setup Folder.

1. Xpath in Appium (Appium Inspector)
Syntax:- Xpath=//tagname[@attribute='value']

ex1: Xpath using Index - //tagname[@index='value'] - || if No tag Name then we use ClassName - //ClassName[@index='4']
driver.findElement(By.xpath("//ClassName[@index='4']")).click();
ex2: Xpath using content-desc  - //tagname[@content-desc='value'] || //ClassName[@content-desc='Storage']


What is Appium?
Appium is an open-source mobile testing automation tool that is used to test mobile applications.
It supports both simulators (iOS) and emulators (Android) as well as actual devices for automation testing (Android and iOS both).
Appium supports various languages, which have Selenium client libraries, such as Java, PHP, Objective C, C#, Python, JavaScript with node.js, Ruby, and many others. 

1. Explain the JSON Wire protocol used by Appium.
The JSON Wire Protocol is the method by which client and server data are exchanged. It was created by WebDriver's developers
 This enables the webdriver to communicate with a server and a client in order to automate tasks. 
In this protocol, JSON is used to transmit data between the server and the client. 
Before delivering an object to a server, a client (or the computer running the WebDriver API) turns it into a JSON object. 
The JSON object is parsed by the server and converted back to a JavaScript object. 
The response object is converted to a JSON string by the server and returned to the client.
For use, the client transforms the JSON string to a JavaScript object.

2. What do you mean by Appium Package master? How would you create a package?
Appium Package master refers to a set of tools that are used to create and manage Appium packages.
Appium packages includes : appium-uiautomator2-driver, appium-xcuitest-driver, appium-espresso-driver, 
selenium-webdriver: Enables actions like clicks, scrolls, and input across web and mobile platforms using WebDriver bindings.


3. Appium Inspector
Essential for inspecting UI elements of the app under test.
Generates locators (id, XPath, accessibilityId) for use in test scripts.

5. appium-doctor
A diagnostic tool that verifies system configurations.
Ensures all dependencies (e.g., Java, Node.js, Android SDK, Xcode) are correctly installed.

6. webdriverio
A Node.js implementation supporting WebDriver API.

7. Explain Desired Capabilities in the context of Appium.
On iOS and Android, Appium behaves differently. Because it is a "cross-platform" tool, a method must be in place to distinguish between the session requests of the two operating systems. 
JSON objects, referred to as Desired Capabilities, were introduced to address this specific problem statement.
Desired Capabilities are key-value pairs of data that separate the establishment of an Android app testing session from that of an iOS app testing session. 

8. Explain Appium Session in the context of Appium.
Appium session is a medium to send commands to a specific test application.
a session is like a temporary conversation between your test script and the Appium server to control a mobile app or device.
   What is an Appium Session?
When you start a test, Appium creates a session to connect your test script to the mobile app or device you want to test.
This session is identified by a unique session ID (like a ticket number).
The session acts as a bridge that allows your test commands (like click, sendKeys, swipe) to control the app on the device.


9. What is Appium Server ?
It acts as a bridge between the client-side automation scripts and the target application.
How Appium Server Works
The test scripts send automation commands to the Appium Server.
The server translates these commands into platform-specific actions.
It interacts with the appropriate frameworks (like UiAutomator2 for Android or XCUITest for iOS) to control the app.
Once the task is executed, the server sends the result back to the client.

10. What is simulator & what is Emulator ?
Emulators and simulators are virtual devices.
A simulator creates an environment that mimics the behaviors, variables, and configurations in the production environment of an iOS app. It only replicates the software environment.
TestFlight: Apple’s official tool for distributing and testing iOS apps in a simulated software environment.
An emulator mimics all the hardware and software features for the Android app production environment of a real device.
BlueStacks: An Android emulator for running Android apps and games on Windows or macOS.
Android Emulator (e.g., in Android Studio): Simulates Android devices on your computer for testing apps.


