What is Appium Server?
Appium Server is the core component of the Appium mobile app testing framework. 
It acts as an intermediary between your test code and the mobile devices or emulators you’re testing on.


How to Download and Install Appium
Method 1: Install Appium using Node.js
The first step is to verify whether Node.js is already installed in the system.
To do so, open the terminal and run the following command:
node --version
If Node.js is already installed in the system, it’ll return the Node version, else it throws an error stating – ‘node is not recognized’, which means Node.js is not installed in the system.
To install Node.js, visit the official Node.js download section.
appium --version   (verify the Appium installation on macOS or Windows by running the command below:)
This will return the latest Appium version installed in your system.
**To start the Appium server directly from the terminal, enter “appium” as a command. It will begin on the Appium server on Port number 4723.**

Method 2: Install Appium using Appium Desktop Client
To get started with Appium Desktop installation, follow the steps below:
1. Visit the official Appium site and Click on the Download Appium button
2. The Download button redirects the user to the GitHub page
3. From the GitHub page, Windows users need to download the .exe file, and Mac users need to download the .dmg file.
4. Once the Appium Desktop file for the respective OS is downloaded, start the installation by double-clicking on that file. Mac users must drag the Appium logo to the Applications folder to initiate the installation.
5. Once the installation is complete, start the Appium Desktop Client.
6. Users can start or stop the Appium server using this user interface.
They can also configure their test environments using the Appium Desktop Client.
Before proceeding with any test scenarios, developers or QAs must consider installing and running Appium doctor. It is a tool that identifies and resolves common configuration issues in Node, iOS, and Android before Appium automation.
Install Appium Doctor using the following command:
npm install appium-doctor -g
Once the tool is installed, one can view the list of inspections available by running the command below:
appium-doctor -h







